README.md, before:

## stackage-update

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/fpco/stackage-update.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/fpco/stackage-update)

This package provides an executable, `stackage-update`, which provides the same
functionality as `cabal update` (it updates your local package index). However,
instead of downloading the entire package index as a compressed tarball over
insecure HTTP, it uses `git` to incrementally update your package list, and
downloads over secure HTTPS.

It has minimal Haskell library dependencies (all dependencies are shipped with
GHC itself) and only requires that the `git` executable be available on the
PATH. It builds on top of the
[all-cabal-files](https://github.com/commercialhaskell/all-cabal-files)
repository.

### Advantages

Versus standard `cabal update`, using `stackage-update` gives the following advantages:

* Only downloads the deltas from the last time you updated your index, threby requiring significantly less bandwidth
* Downloads over a secure HTTPS connection instead of an insecure HTTP connection
* Note that the `all-cabal-files` repo is also updated from Hackage over a secure HTTPS connection

### Usage

Install from Hackage as usual with:

```
cabal update
cabal install stackage-update
```

From then on, simply run `stackage-update` instead of `cabal update`.

### Limitations

This currently has no respect for customized remote-repos in your
~/.cabal/config file. It assumes you have a remote-repo named
`hackage.haskell.org` which should be populated from the all-cabal-files repo.
If you have some kind of custom setup, this tool won't work for you. The vast
majority of users tend to not modify their remote-repos, so `stackage-update`
should work for most people most of the time.

### Why stackage?

You may be wondering why this tool is called `stackage-update`, when in fact
the functionality is useful outside of [the Stackage
project](https://www.stackage.org/) itself. The reason is that the naming
allows it to play nicely with the other Stackage command line tooling.
Concretely, that means that if you have stackage-cli installed, stackage-update
works as a plugin. However, you can certainly use `stackage-update` on its own
without any other tooling or dependencies on the Stackage project.

### Future enhancements

* If desired, add support for GPG signature checking when cloning/pulling from the `all-cabal-files` repository.
* Detect modified remote-repos and warn the user

### Some notes

Data is stored as a git-repository at app-directory retrieved by [getAppUserDataDirectory](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/directory/docs/System-Directory.html#v:getAppUserDataDirectory), so for Unix it is `$HOME/.stackage-update/all-cabal-files`. This is convenient because you can `cd` there and use regular git tools to see what's new.

Commit message:

Add the --verify command line option

README.md, after:

## stackage-update

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/fpco/stackage-update.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/fpco/stackage-update)

This package provides an executable, `stackage-update`, which provides the same
functionality as `cabal update` (it updates your local package index). However,
instead of downloading the entire package index as a compressed tarball over
insecure HTTP, it uses `git` to incrementally update your package list, and
downloads over secure HTTPS.

It has minimal Haskell library dependencies (all dependencies are shipped with
GHC itself) and only requires that the `git` executable be available on the
PATH. It builds on top of the
[all-cabal-files](https://github.com/commercialhaskell/all-cabal-files)
repository.

### Advantages

Versus standard `cabal update`, using `stackage-update` gives the following advantages:

* Only downloads the deltas from the last time you updated your index, threby requiring significantly less bandwidth
* Downloads over a secure HTTPS connection instead of an insecure HTTP connection
* Note that the `all-cabal-files` repo is also updated from Hackage over a secure HTTPS connection

### Usage

Install from Hackage as usual with:

```
cabal update
cabal install stackage-update
```

From then on, simply run `stackage-update` instead of `cabal update`.

### Limitations

This currently has no respect for customized remote-repos in your
~/.cabal/config file. It assumes you have a remote-repo named
`hackage.haskell.org` which should be populated from the all-cabal-files repo.
If you have some kind of custom setup, this tool won't work for you. The vast
majority of users tend to not modify their remote-repos, so `stackage-update`
should work for most people most of the time.

### GPG signature verification

Since version 0.1.1.0, stackage-update supports verifying the GPG signature. In
order to do so, you pass in the `--verify` argument. You must first set up your
GPG keychain to trust the relevant key, such as with the following commands:

```
$ gpg --recv-key --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com D6CF60FD
$ gpg --edit D6CF60FD
gpg> trust
Your decision? 3
gpg> quit
```

This is an example session, and not intended to be a guide to good GPG and
cryptography practice. If you would like to verify this signing key properly
via a web of trust, you can contact Michael Snoyman, who is already a signer
for this key. The fingerprint is:

```
E595 AD42 14AF A6BB 1552  0B23 E40D 74D6 D6CF 60FD
```

Note: the GPG key may be updated in the future following standard key rotation
policies. If you note that the key information listed here is out of date,
please open an issue/send a pull request.

### Why stackage?

You may be wondering why this tool is called `stackage-update`, when in fact
the functionality is useful outside of [the Stackage
project](https://www.stackage.org/) itself. The reason is that the naming
allows it to play nicely with the other Stackage command line tooling.
Concretely, that means that if you have stackage-cli installed, stackage-update
works as a plugin. However, you can certainly use `stackage-update` on its own
without any other tooling or dependencies on the Stackage project.

### Future enhancements

* Detect modified remote-repos and warn the user

### Some notes

Data is stored as a git-repository at app-directory retrieved by [getAppUserDataDirectory](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/directory/docs/System-Directory.html#v:getAppUserDataDirectory), so for Unix it is `$HOME/.stackage-update/all-cabal-files`. This is convenient because you can `cd` there and use regular git tools to see what's new.
